# Interpretable machine learning model for quantum materials: Understanding magnetic anisotropy at the atomic level
Codebase and basic datasets for paper *Interpretable machine learning model for quantum materials: Understanding magnetic anisotropy at the atomic level* 

## Structure
Most of the codebase is stored as notebooks to provide additional comments and references to specific parts of the Manuscript and Suplementary Information.

* `data`: directory contain the full dataset used to train machine learning models
* `src`: additional code that is imported by the notebooks
* `txtoutput`: directory where all the output is stored. Those file can be used to reproduce all the figures in the manuscript.

## Notebooks to reproduce results
The notebooks in the main directory of this repo:
* [CorrelationMatrix.ipynb](CorrelationMatrix.ipynb): This notebook will reproduce the correlation matrices: Figure 1: Matrix of Spearman’s correlation, Figure S1: Matrix of Kendall’s coefficients, Figure S2: The same as in Fig. S1 but for the Pearson’s r correlation coefficient
* [TrainModels.ipynb](TrainModels.ipynb): Notebook to reproduce main results in the paper including:
  * Table 1, Table 2
  * Feature Selection
  * SOC Energy predictions
  * Figures 2, 3 and S3, S4 can be reproduced from the output generated by this notebook. 
* [TrainModels_predict_PT.ipynb](TrainModels_predict_PT.ipynb): Additional experiment in which PT instead of MAE is used as target. This enables to reproduce e.g. Figure S7.
* [TrainModels_PT_as_feature.ipynb](TrainModels_PT_as_feature.ipynb): Additional experiments in which PT value used as feature. This is discussed in the manuscript in lines 406-420.